---
layout: default
title: Errata
---
# Errata
This page lists required changes and errata regarding the content of the book that came to our attention after its publication.
While being a valuable compendium, a software engineering book such as _Extending SAP S/4HANA_ deals with an ever-changing topic.
That is why some facts and statements written in the book may over time become outdated, even though accurate at the time of writing.
Additionally, a few mistakes may also have slipped through, although we have put our best effort into proof-reading.
Both changes and errata are mentioned in the following, organized by part and chapter where they occur in the book.

> **Note**: This overview is not meant to be an exhaustive list of everything that has changed since the publication of the book.
> The [release notes](https://help.sap.com/http.svc/rc/6c02295dfa8f47cf9c08a19f2e172901/1.0/en-US/index.html) of the SAP S/4HANA Cloud SDK may contain additional, more up-to-date changes as far as the SDK in general is concerned.

## Part I
* No major changes known yet

## Part II
* **Chapter 6.4.3**: there is a typo on page 204; the value for the property `userIdSource` has to be `email` on Cloud Foundry (not `mail`, which is the correct value for Neo). The screenshot in Figure 6.10 shows a wrong property `nameIdSource` with value `user_name`.
* **Chapter 7.4**: the `TenantNotFoundException` mentioned in Listing 7.7 has been renamed to `TenantNotAvailableException`.

## Part III
* No major changes known yet

## Part IV
* **Chapter 15.2**: since version 2.0.0 of the SAP S/4HANA Cloud SDK, the Spring Boot archetype `scp-cf-spring` generates a project that is using Spring Boot 2.0.x. Hence, the statements about conflicting dependency versions in Chapter 15.2.2 are obsolete, and the dependency management section generated by the archetype is significantly simpler.
* **Chapter 17.3.2**: when deploying the chaincode, you need to additionally supply a name for the chaincode as first argument. In the dialog to deploy the chaincode, click on *+ Add Argument* and enter `blacklist-chaincode` or similar.

## Part V
* **Chapter 20.1**: with version 2.0.0 of the SAP S/4HANA Cloud SDK, custom fields with date or time type can only be accessed as `Calendar` objects in Java. Support for converting the type of custom fields has been introduced with version 2.2.0, but requires an additional step described below.
  * When using version 2.0.0, replace each mentioning of the type `LocalDateTime` with `Calendar`. Instead of using `LocalDateTime.now()`, use `new GregorianCalendar()` to create a date object.
  * When using version 2.2.0 or later, add `new LocalDateTimeCalendarConverter()` as an additional parameter to the constructor when instantiating the custom field for the date (Listing 20.1). Elsewhere, use the code and types as described in the book (that is, `LocalDateTime`).

## Part VI
* No major changes known yet